Welcome! In this video we're going to be learning about adding extra scenes, so
this is a new empty scene, and we're also going to be learning about how, in code,
we can transition between these different scenes. So you can see here, by hitting
Spacebar, if I have the game's loaded
I'm actually loading my game scene. So we've gone from a menu scene
to a game scene. See you in the lecture!
So I want to show you how we go about adding things like
splash screens, to give our game a little bit more polish. We don't really want to
end up straight here in the game, with no explanation,
no kind of warning, that we're actually going to get into a game at all.
So the first component we're going to need for that is to talk a little
bit about these scenes. So, as you can see, we have a Main scene
here, this is kind of our game scene, and
we're going to create a new scene. Because we're going to have more than one scene, I'm going to Create a
Folder for all our scenes, and I'm going to
prefix it with underscore, so that it shows up at the beginning. So it'll be _Scenes.
There it is, it shows up first in our ordering. I'm going to stick the Main
scene in there. It doesn't matter if you move it around. And while I'm at it,
I am going to actually rename this to
02_Game. Now
the reason for the 02 is that I want to put a menu scene before
this one, so that's going to be 01. So let's right-click,
Create, and create ourselves a new Scene.
And as I said, this one is going to be 01_Menu.
As you see, that obviously goes in the correct order. And if I open
up that scene, I just want to Save changes to my current scene,
and I get a brand new scene completely.
But how does my game know which scene is the right one to load?
So for that, we have to go into Edit, and then, go down
to... I apologize, we go into Build Settings,
which is under File. So File, Build Settings, that's that one here,
and it pops up a box here.
Now what we can do is, we have Scenes in Build. As you see, we haven't added any
yet, and what we need to do is just drag those scenes in
from our Scenes folder. And I want you to note the order
that these scenes are in; that's actually quite important, because that will dictate
or we'll use that to give us the order that they should
show up in our game. And so, take a note of
this number off to the right, this is what's known as
the Build Number. We'll see what that means in
just a second. OK, so we are
in our menu now. I want to
show you how we go from one scene
to the next, and I'm going to do that by creating a little
script. So I'm going to create a GameObject to
attach the script to. I'm going to call it the LevelManager,
because it's responsible for loading different levels.
I'm going to Create a new script, right-click in the Scripts folder, C# Script,
and I'll call that one LevelManager2...
I mean I'll call it LevelManager, as well, not LevelManager number 2.
I'm going to drag that script onto the GameObject, so that it will run,
and then, what I want to do is,
in the Start () method, this is where I'm going to "// Load
scene". Now, you've probably never
seen these before, but the double slash, as we've seen here,
indicates a comment. That means something that is completely ignored by the compiler, completely
ignored by Unity, and it's just there for the
programmer to make notes to themselves. Now
we're going to have to import a new module, in order to load the scenes,
and that module is called,
I think it's called Unity
Engine dot...
I think it's a manager? SceneManagement, there we go!
So you see what I did there, I kind of guessed, I couldn't
remember, so I just checked by using the auto-completion. I knew it had
Management in there, and with Visual Studio, at least, if you type just
part of the word, it can complete the rest for you. So it was SceneManagement,
and it knew what I wanted. Now, what we need is
the SceneManager, and the SceneManager has a few
interesting methods on it, one of them is
we can get the current scene.
We do that by
GetActiveScene here, and that gets
us a scene object. And, in fact, the scene
object has a few interesting properties, and the number one property that we're
interested in looking at is this one, buildIndex. That was that number that
you had seen previously, so if we go and have a look at the Build Settings again,
this number here, that is called the Build Index. So if we can
get hold of our buildIndex, like so...
I'm just going to store it as current
Index, like so.
And then, what we actually want to do is progress to the next scene, so we
want the currentIndex + 1. We want
to somehow load currentIndex + 1. How are we going to do that?
I'll just make that into a comment, "// Load currentIndex + 1".
So again, we use the scene manager.
And what method would be useful here? Well perhaps Load
Scene! And if you have a look at the different overloads
that there are for LoadScene, we can go through them with the arrow,
you see that one of them takes this
sceneBuildIndex. That's exactly the one that we are going to be
using. In fact, it's that first one, sceneBuildIndex on its own. So
we're going to do (currentIndex + 1).
There we go! It should load our next scene, so I'm going to
hit Save, go over to Unity,
and hit play. OK,
something didn't quite work there. There's something a bit fishy! It doesn't look like it actually
saved, so I will hit the Save button manually
here. OK, having a bit of
problems saving here. There we go, now it's saved!
If I go back into Unity and hit play, hopefully now with the
correct version. There we go! You see it went straight into our second scene,
because on start that method was called, the Start () method,
the LevelManager's Start () method was called. Let's go over to it,
and we got our current scene index, we incremented it by 1, and
we loaded that scene. Perfect!
So here is a smaller challenge than usual for you! I'd like you to trigger the next
scene on Spacebar. So you'll need to be using the
GetKeyDown(), our now very familiar GetKeyDown().
And I'd like you to factor out a method for going to the next
scene, so that it's very tight, very obviously
refactored, and all the functionality is essentially self
documented, by giving it a sensible name. OK, so pause the video,
and have a go at this little challenge!
OK welcome back! I am going to do this right
now! So the first thing I said is, we want to avoid
comments when possible, by just giving things good names. So
if I'm going to cut this out, I'm going to create a new method,
void, and it's going to be LoadNext
Scene(). It doesn't need to take any arguments.
And here we go, I can just remove this comment now, because
obviously it loads the next scene and this one, too.
And now, this one we can call from our Update () method,
once we have checked our GetKeyDown(). So if
(Input.GetKeyDown.
And then, we've got the (KeyCode.Space))! It's what I want!
And then, I can just call our method like this, Load
NextScene(). As simple
as that! So you can see that it's very obvious that when
we get the Spacebar we load the next scene, because the method name is
very very obvious. And then, LoadNextScene(), because we're in a method named LoadNextScene(),
all these lines of code make quite a lot of sense!
So if we go back into Unity and hit play,
we should hopefully see our empty scene, until we hit space
and it has loaded our game.
Perfect! Challenge completed! Let's move on to the next video!